# Password Manager

Password Manager is written in Java to be platform independent and easy 
to use.

## Encryption

The layout of a file is as follows:

1. Salt (8 bytes)

2. Initalization Vector (16 bytes)

3. Begin of encrypted part (AES-256)

4. Hash of the password generated by SHA-256 (typically 32 bytes, other sizes supported)

5. Length of a entry, the entry itself

The program uses the default java classes for encryption.

## Class Design

### General

The application follows a Model-View-Control-concept:

- manager: The Model, cares about encryption, decryption, saving, loading and, 
of course, managing of the entries.

- gui: The View and Control

Then there are some more packages:

- util: A collection of various utils, ex. General Swing Components and 
a Character Helper.

- test: Short tests for the model part.

### Manager

- Safe: takes care of the encryption and saving/loading. Has an ArrayList
containing all the entries.

- PasswordManager: A singleton to wrap the Safe class for our needs.

### GUI

- MainFrame: The main frame of the GUI. Registers all listeners and sets up the 
components.

- EntryListModel: The ListModel used by the Entry List. Supports search patterns.

### Util

All util classes except of the CharHelper are copied from the internet and 
slightly changed. See the header of each file for details.

- AdvancedJOptionPane: An extension of the default JOptionPane which also
supports multi-line inputs.

- CharHelper: Has utility methods for overwriting an char array and converting
it from and to a byte array.

- HintTextFieldUI: An UI which allows a TextField to show a gray-ed out text 
if not written to.

- ListAction: An utility class which allows to have an Action called if a list 
item gets double-clicked or opened with the ENTER-key.

### Test

All test have a main()-method.

- TestPasswordManagerApi: A test for the PasswordManager class.

- TestSafeApi: A test for the Safe class.
